HTTP can be described as a....
  a protocol used only by web browsers and servers
  a request protocol only
  a request-response protocol
  a response protocol only

HTTP requests can contain:
  a "headers" list of key-value pairs
  a body that can contain text data
  a resource locator
  a "footer" list of key-value pairs

A web-based API....
  always returns JSON, XML, or HTML
  is a way for two programs to talk to each other
  can never be used by a web browser directly
  bypasses the typical HTTP requirements

Browsers can send HTTP requests....
  using the GET method
  using the POST method
  using the PUT method
  using the DELETE method
  browsers don't actually use any HTTP methods

What will the following command do? <code>rails server
  start a local web server on port 3000
  deploy a web server to the internet
  display a log of http traffic
  create a new rails application

A Rails "route"...
  connects controllers and views together
  can include querystring parameters
  connects an http request to a Ruby method in your app
  must use lowercase characters only

A Rails controller....
  can contain no more than seven methods
  derives ultimately from ActionController::Base
  is responsible for handling HTTP requests
  must render a view template

A Rails action...
  is a Ruby method
  can reside inside any class in your app
  must have a corresponding view template
  is responsible for generating an HTTP response

A Rails action...
  can access querystring parameters with the qrystring[] hash
  can inspect dynamic route segments
  can receive form input field values
  should modify the params[] hash

The following are valid inputs to the render method in a controller action:
  render "<h1>Greetings</h1>"
  render 'greetings'
  render :json => ["hello", "goodbye"]
  render

A route can be named...
  by using the :as option in the route definition line
  to help DRY up controller and view code
  to generate three helper methods
  differently from the name of the action

Rails "assets" are....
  stylesheets
  javascript files
  images
  Ruby code that will never change
  static HTML files

form_for is different than form_tag because...
  it will figure out the form method attribute value automatically
  it will figure out the form action attibute value automatically
  it can be used for any kind of form you need
  it should only be used for model-based forms

Models...
  represent real-world things inside our software
  can access the params[] hash
  can contain methods that you manually write
  always derive from ActiveRecord::Base
  can be associated to at most one other model
  can render views
  should use the singular noun form, i.e. Car, instead of the plural noun form, i.e. Cars
  cannot be accessed from views
  can contain action methods if the route specifies the model class using the :controller => option
  are often database-backed

RESTful routing...
  expects the intended action to be in the URL path string
  leverages the HTTP notion of resources
  always requires seven actions
  provides automatic security features
  defines conventions for all dynamic segments
  requires that your route names must match your model names

The following are Rails features that intentionally embrace the DRY principle
  partials
  models
  rake routes
  layouts
  embedded ruby syntax

Data validations are best implemented by...
  the controller
  the model
  the view
  the command line
  rails console

The one primary responsibility of a view is to...
  DRY up your code
  generate JSON
  apply markup to controller-provided data
  retrieve data from the database

Associations are....
  implemented in models
  implemented in controllers
  used by models
  used by controllers
  used in routes

A view template....
  can access local variables defined in the corresponding action method
  can access instance variables defined in the corresponding action method
  can access instance variables defined in any method of the same controller
  can define its own local variables
  can definite its own instance variables



One-to-Many associations require...
  that each model contain a primary key
  that only one model contain a foreign key
  a belongs_to declaration
  a has_many declaration 

belongs_to ...
  generates a foreign key column
  generates an instance method
  is contained in the model without the foreign key
  is contained in the model with the foreign key

has_many
  generates a foreign key column
  generates an instance method
  is contained in the class without the foreign key
  is contained in the class with the foreign key

Many-to-many associations....
  always require only two tables
  always require at least three tables
  requires at least two foreign keys in one model
  cannot be achieved in Rails

Validation rules are triggered by calls to ....
  .valid?
  .where
  .save
  .find_by_id
  .new
  .errors
  .create

A Rails migration is best defined as...
  the schema of the entire database
  the schema for one table
  SQL instructions for at least one database schema change
  a Ruby script that executes instructions for at least one database schema change

Routes defined in routes.rb ....
  are evaluated using a best-match algorithm upon receiving an http request
  are evaluated top-down for the first possible match upon receiving an http request
  are uniquely defined by the URL path
  are uniquely defined by the combination of the http method and the URL path
  can contain multiple dynamic segments
  must use :id as a dynamic segment

The best way to determine the actual set of routes defined in a Rails application is...
  rake routes
  viewing the routes.rb file
  watching the server log
  rake db:migrate
  rake about 

Controller instances....
  are held in memory for the life of the application
  are held in memory until the action method returns
  are held in memory until an HTTP response has been generated
  are created by Rails
  are created by the routes file
  are created by code you must write yourself

What does the following command do?   <code>rails generate migration CreateBooks
  generates a migration class file
  executes the migration file
  generates a Book model class
  generates a CreateBooks model class

This command... <code>rails console
  is similar, but different from, irb
  is exactly the same as irb
  shows the server log
  is a simulator for making http requests

The HTML generated by both form_tag and form_for is preferred over manually writing a <form> tag because...
  they adhere to HTML5 standards for element syntax
  they generate an authenticity token inside of a hidden field to provide CSRF protection
  they can generate a hidden field to simulate an HTTP method other than GET or POST
  they apply built-in CSS styles automatically
  they can make your source code easier to read

In order to work, a form requires a minimum of...
  two actions
  one partial
  one HTML <form> element
  two controllers
  one action
  two routes
  one route 

  This code: <code>resources :products
  generates 4 total routes
  generates 7 total routes
  generates 4 named routes
  assumes a controller named "ProductsController"
  assumes a controller named "ProductController" 

"Mass assignment" can be triggered by the following ActiveRecord::Base methods:
  create
  new
  destroy
  update_attributes
  save
